The next feature I want you to investigate is called RAD.
This is a measure of the accessibility to highways for the property and I want to challenge you to use
map plot lib to generate a meaningful histogram for this rad feature.
This might be a little tricky and require some thought so pause the video play with the python code
and have a think about what this feature is actually telling us.
Oh a hand for the histogram pick a beautiful royal purple color while you're at it.
I'll give you a few seconds to pass the video.
Here's the solution.
Let's check what would happen if we took this code here.
Pasted it in.
Changed our name to Rand changed the X label to accessibility to highways and changed the hex code to
a nice purple from material palette dot com that change that here.
Paste it in and hit shift enter.
We get something like this now.
This looks a little strange to me.
It seems like the histogram is bins are hiding some information from us because the bins for this histogram
seem a little too broad if I look at the python code.
BLT dot hist.
We haven't supplied any bins as an argument to this function call and this means we're using automatic
binning.
We're letting my plot lib decide on how to show us the histogram.
Maybe what we need to do is investigate what Rand actually is and how accessibility to highways is actually
measured.
For example what are the units in red.
Perhaps we should try to understand this before creating our visualization so let's output RAD TO OUR
Jupiter notebook so when a data square brackets single quotes are a d all caps and head shift enter
and we scroll down and just take a look at this
so I've got five hundred and six entries and all of these seem to be whole numbers.
So starts out with one two three.
Some of them have 5.
Some of them have 24.
Mm hmm.
Okay so this is a contrast to the house prices Rand is a bunch of distinct integer values and all the
values seem to be whole numbers.
A bit way that we can see this and just look at how many unique values there are in the series is to
use the value on the score counts method on this series.
So I want to put a dot after data square brackets Rand and write value on a score counts parentheses
and hit shift enter.
So this gives me a beautiful summary of how many observations in this column in Rand have a particular
value.
So for example we can see that 17 observations.
Yeah 17 properties in the dataset have a rad value of seven and there's one hundred and thirty two dwellings
that have the highway accessibility value of 24.
So keeping this in mind and scrolling back up to the description already actually refers to an index
of accessibility to radial highways.
So that's what we're looking at.
We're looking at an index.
In other words accessibility to highways is ranked from 1 to 24.
One is the value for low accessibility and 24 is the value for high accessibility.
In other words a property with poor accessibility to transport scores low on this index and a property
that has good accessibility to transport has a high value on this index.
So looking at our histogram again.
So what we probably want is we want this histogram to reflect these index values instead of this automatic
binning.
We want to show these index values and we don't want to been several of the indexed values together
and that's because the data in this rad feature already has pretty much our bins mapped out for us.
So we're gonna use these.
I can modify the histogram code right here to take this into account simply by adding the bins argument
and setting it equal to the value twenty four.
Now let me refresh my histogram what all right.
So that completes the challenge we plotted our histogram for the rad feature and what we can see is
that there's quite a few properties between the 1 and 7 range on the index.
And there's also a whole bunch of properties for the value 24 on the index but um you know what this
histogram kind of looks like it looks like a bar chart hand a bar chart is a histogram is cousin histogram
and bar charts can be used to pretty much show the same information.
So let me show you the python code for creating a bar chart using matte plot lib as well.
This is another data visualization technique that's really handy to have in your tool belt so when I
come down here at a few more cells and I'm gonna make use of these values counts method someone to copy
this line of code and I'm going to store the output the result from this code in a variable called Frequency
frequency is equal to data square brackets.
Single quotes red dot value counts now.
Frequency is also a panda's series.
You can see this if I write the code type parentheses frequency shift enter so data square brackets.
This a series but the return value of this value underscore counts method is also a series.
And the reason I'm showing you this is because I want to draw your attention to something when it come
at the sound and what I want to do is I want to access these values right here.
I just want to access the labels for these unique index values.
I can do this in one of two ways.
Check it out if I see frequency dot index
then I'll get a collection of all these index values in my series.
So this is one way of doing it when a comment is out and I'll show you the second way.
Frequency dot axes.
Square brackets zero if I had shift into then I get exactly the same result.
The axes attribute of the series can also be used to retrieve the row axes labels and the reason I'm
interested in these in the first place is because we're going to use these to label the x axis on the
bond chart that we're going to create.
So check it out and when I come at this out.
And then to create the bar chart I'm going to take my Mac plot lib object party dot bar parentheses
and then I have to supply two things.
The first is what I want on the x axis.
And this is gonna be frequency dot index.
And the second thing I have to supply for the bar chart is the height of the individual bars.
So this will be an argument called height and when set that equal to.
Well this would just be the values inside my frequency variable.
These values here.
So what's the height.
Is equal to frequency and then we're put PDT Dutch show afterwards and scroll down and it shift into
the and this is what we get as it is there's no labels on the axes and there's also the default color
being used.
So we're going to do his I'm going to make this bar chart a little larger.
Let me grab this coat up here that we have come down here.
Paste it in.
I'm going to delete this line here and then when I leave my ex label and white label as they are and
hit shift enter.
There we go.
So this is a bar chart but I want to draw your attention to one thing the neat thing about the code
we've just written is that we haven't had to specify the number of pins ahead of time.
We haven't had the right pins as equal to 24.
We haven't had to hard code the number 24 for the number of pins.
Instead we wrote some Python code using value counts which figured out the best way to draw the x and
y axes for our bar chart for us.
So this is a technique that you can apply to other types of index data as well.
It makes the code that we've just written a lot more flexible than hand coding particular integer values.
And that's a good thing.
You're also gonna be looking at this chart here and you might be thinking hmmm this looks a lot better
than the histogram just because it's got these spaces in between the bars.
Because if we look at our histogram kind of looks like this at the moment all the bins all the bars
are jam packed together.
So let me give you a little challenge so you can familiarize yourself with the histogram function at
a little better as well.
I want you to modify this histogram so that it's also got some spaces between the boss.
The trick will be to look at the documentation by say pulling up the quick documentation in the notebook
and looking for the right argument to supply to the function call you can pull up the quick documentation
by pressing shift and then tab on your keyboard and hitting this little plus sign and scrolling down
and taking a look at this.
Here I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video so you can find the parameter that you have to modify
and give the boss a little bit more of a breathing room.
How did you get on the just hold it here's the solution.
The argument that we need to specify in this method call is are with by default.
This has the value none.
But let's check out what the description says for our width
if I scroll down in the quick documentation I can see that are with is an optional argument and that
it is a number that specifies the relative width of the bars as a fraction of the total bin width and
the first time I read this.
That didn't make a whole lot of sense to me.
So what I had to do is try out a couple of different numbers and see how the chart turned out.
So if we write our width is equal to one and head shift and to see what we get no change but if we change
that to say zero point five and head shift into 0 histogram thoughts looking like this.
So at this hour with argument is doing if it's set to zero point five our bar width will be approximately
zero point five and on either side of the bar we'll have a space of zero point to five if we make this
zero point seven the gaps will get smaller and if we make this zero point see three then the gaps will
get wider so in essence you can add a value between 0 and 1 to this are width argument and you'll get
different results.
If I put in the value 10 then I get exactly the same as if I put in the value 1 Oh good I'm going to
leave it at zero point five cool.
So we've looked at the average number of rooms per dwelling we've looked at access to radial highways
and we've looked at the property prices in our visualizations so both the number of rooms and the house
prices were quite easy to understand right.
Measuring how good the transport links where on the other hand was a little bit more complex given that
it was measured as an index value with accessibility to radial highways but there's actually another
very nifty technique that the researchers are using to capture some information about these Boston Properties.
You see there's a river running through Boston and this river is called the Charles River and it looks
something like this Imagine for a second that you were conducting the original research and collating
the Boston housing data.
You want to be able to differentiate between the houses that are located right on the river and those
that are located elsewhere.
How would you go about doing this.
And this brings us to our next challenge and for this challenge.
I want you to answer a very very simple question.
Tell me out of the 506 properties in the dataset how many properties are located on the Charles River.
This challenge isn't going to be about data visualization.
I just need a cold hard number from you to solve this challenge.
Take a close look at the description of the features and then write a single line of code that will
spit out the answer for you.
And also while you're at it have a think.
If you expect that the properties on the river will be worth more or less than properties that are away
from the river is living next to the Charles River.
A good thing for house prices because we'll find out later.
In the meantime I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video so you can solve this challenge.
Did you get here is the solution.
So the trick was looking for the feature description that would likely contain the answers and maybe
discovered that there is a feature called C H E S chars and this is the Charles River dummy variable
which equals one if the tract bounds the river and 0 other lines.
In other words chars captures whether the property is on the river or not.
Now let's scroll back down and write the python code.
We're going to be using our old friend value underscore counts to solve this.
If I write data square brackets single quotes Chow's dot value on a score counts parentheses and head
shift into I'm going to get the following output.
I can see here that chars only has one of two values zero or one which ties out exactly with what they've
said in the description.
Zero means not on the river and one means located on the Charles River.
So the answer to the challenges question is there are thirty five properties on the river this type
of feature is called a dummy variable and you'll find researchers using dummy variables to capture binary
information.
So this is a good example is the property on the river or not on the river.
Are we dealing with a man or a woman.
Are the unemployed or employed.
Is it a homeowner.
Are they renting.
This is the kind of information that you can capture with dummy variables.
In other words working with dummy variables is actually very similar to working with an index except
that a dummy variable can only have one of two values.
Good stuff.
So we're really getting into the nitty gritty in the next lessons.
We're gonna be looking at descriptive statistics outliers and scatter plots.
I'll see you there.